Notes
=====


* Almost all ventilated patients are on oxygen therapy. Our cohort is the set of patients who are receiving oxygen, the ventilation type should be a cofounder/subgroup.

* Generally, the confounder extraction should be based on previous work wherever possible.

* All durations should be relative to the admission time, otherwise makes selection criteria too complex. Durations to consider are 24, 48, and 72 hours. Main text of paper probably to focus on 48 rather than 72 hours since median ICU length of stay is less than 72 hours.

* Need to consider how we measure the SpO2 quality - the binary "in/out range" is only one method. Maybe look at time series properties of SpO2.



General Todo
============

* All parts of the cohort selection should be visualised with histograms. For now, make histogram of LOS.

* We should include full analysis for patients that had different LOS in ICU, e.g., <24 hours, 24-48 hours, >48 hours. Reviewers may think we had selection bias otherwise, we can put in appendix to show conclusions are represntative for the whole cohort.

* Patients may only receive O2 therapy for part of the stay, we should only look at Sp02 at times when recieving O2 therapy.

* Instead of looking for patients who had over 72 O2 measurements, we should have a threshold like 80%.

* Look into other techniques like "META analysis", "Marginal structural model" (the latter may be able to handle temporal fluctuation in use of O2 therapy, search "Miguel Hernan" from Havard). 

* Perhaps cross-validation for our thresholds.

* Look for papers which specify an SpO2 range, to justify the width of our range. Otherwise our range may be viewed as too arbitrary.



Specific Todo
============


| Issue | Followup |
| --- | --- |
| Need to add full set of cofounders for eICU | #18 |
| Detect first ICU stay in eICU | #19 |
| Check that the patient stay is at least 72 hours using the time offset variables | Use "icu_length_of_stay" from "eicu_final_patient_results" |
| Ventilation offsets are incorrect | #12 |
| Make effect histogram | #15 |
| Solve O2 L/% issue | #20 |
| Incorporate external code for O2 therapy/ventilation on eICU | #21 |
